.TH VENTO 1 "August 2024" "0.1.2" "Vento Manual"
.SH NAME
vento \- a simple text editor

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vento
.RI [ options ] " [file]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Vento
is a lightweight and easy-to-use text editor designed for simplicity and efficiency. It offers essential text editing capabilities along with additional features such as a status bar, a help screen, and a scroll bar for better navigation.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the help screen.

.SH USAGE
.B vento
[optional-filename]

.PP
Vento allows multiple files to be opened at once. Load additional files using
\fBCTRL-L\fP and switch between them with \fBF6\fP for the next file or
\fBF7\fP for the previous one.

.SH FEATURES
.IP \[bu] 2
Basic editor functionality: Navigate through text using arrow keys, edit text, and manage files.
.IP \[bu] 2
Load files: Open existing files for editing.
.IP \[bu] 2
Save as: Save the current document with a new filename.
.IP \[bu] 2
Status bar: Display current line number, column number, and total lines.
.IP \[bu] 2
Create new file: Start a new document from scratch.
.IP \[bu] 2
Scroll bar: Visual indicator for navigation within the document.
.IP \[bu] 2
Help screen: Access help information with keyboard shortcuts.
.IP \[bu] 2
Save feature: Save the current document without prompting for a new filename if it has already been saved.
.IP \[bu] 2
Basic syntax highlighting: Basic highlighting for C and HTML files.
.IP \[bu] 2
Undo and redo: Support for undo and redo actions.
.IP \[bu] 2
About box: Display product name, version, and GPL message.
.IP \[bu] 2
Delete current line: Delete the current line and move the cursor to the next line if it exists.
.IP \[bu] 2
Word navigation: Move forward to the next word or backward to the previous word.
.IP \[bu] 2
Close current file: Close the active file and switch to another open file.
.IP \[bu] 2
Customizable configuration: Allow custom settings via a configuration file.

.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.TP 
.B CTRL-H
Display the help screen.
.TP 
.B CTRL-A
Show the about box with the name of the product, version, and GPL message.
.TP 
.B CTRL-L
Load a new file.
.TP 
.B CTRL-O
Save the current file with a new filename (Save As).
.TP 
.B CTRL-P
Save the current file without prompting for a new filename.
.TP
.B CTRL-Q
Close the current file.
.TP
.B CTRL-J
Start or stop selection mode for text.
.TP 
.B CTRL-K
Paste the contents of the clipboard at the cursor position.
.TP 
.B CTRL-N
Clear the current buffer to create a new file.
.TP 
.B CTRL-R
Redo the last undone action.
.TP 
.B CTRL-U
Undo the last action.
.TP 
.B CTRL-X
Quit the editor and return to the shell.
.TP 
.TP
.B CTRL-F
Search the file for a string of text.
.B CTRL-W
Move the cursor forward to the beginning of the next word.
.TP 
.B CTRL-B
Move the cursor backward to the beginning of the previous word.
.TP 
.B CTRL-D
Delete the current line and move the cursor to the next line if it exists.
.TP 
.B CTRL-T
Activate the menu system.
.TP 
.B Arrow Keys
Navigate through the text.
.TP 
.B Page Up/Page Down
Scroll up or down through the document.
.TP 
.B CTRL-Left Arrow
Move the cursor to the beginning of the current line.
.TP 
.B CTRL-Right Arrow
Move the cursor to the end of the current line.
.TP 
.B CTRL-Page Up
Move to the top of the document.
.TP 
.B CTRL-Page Down
Move to the bottom of the document.
.TP 
.B CTRL-Up Arrow
Move to the top of the current page on the screen.
.TP 
.B CTRL-Down Arrow
Move to the bottom of the current page on the screen.
.TP
.B F6
Switch to the next file when multiple files are open.
.TP
.B F7
Switch to the previous file when multiple files are open.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Open a file named "example.txt" for editing:
.B vento example.txt

.SH PLANNED FEATURES
.IP \[bu] 2
Spell checker support: Integrated spell checking for documents.
.IP \[bu] 2
Git integration: Version control integration with Git.
.IP \[bu] 2
Macro support: Configurable keyboard macros.
.IP \[bu] 2
Extensions API: Create plugins to enhance the editor.

.SH AUTHOR
Stephen Planck - splanck@tutamail.com

.SH COPYRIGHT
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH LICENSE
Vento is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. You may obtain a copy of the GNU General Public License at <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html>.
